[Foyer, Archives, Armory, Dynamite Room, Great Hall, Guest Bedroom, Kitchen, Laboratory, Observatory, Panic Room, Parlor, Secret Passage, Sitting Room, Staff Quarters, Study, Workshop]

NO SUPEVILLAINS/HEROES HERE

When playing with  Artifacts, role-changing Artifacts (like the Claw of the Werewolf) always override a player’s card and Mark. For instance, the Cudgel of the Tanner Artifact overrides the Mark of the Vampire (which overrode the team of that player’s original card), making that player a Tanner and not a Vampire.


Village Team: 
Apprentice Seer – looks at one card from the center (not another players or her own)
Aura Seer – All players that have viewed or moved a card or mark stick up their thumbs for her to see (list of roles in FAQ)
Beholder – Seer and Apprentice Seer stick up their thumbs for her to see, who may check their cards
Bodyguard – Whoever he points to when voting cannot die; Go to the next highest voted
Copycat – Looks at one card from the center and becomes that card. Does the action when called
Cow – Puts hand out in a fist when Aliens wake. If an Alien is sitting next to her, one must tap her fist
Cupid – Gives any two players (including herself) a Mark of Love; if one of them dies so does the other
Curator – Gives any player (including himself) a random, unknown Artifact. Cannot give to a Shielded player.
Cursed – If pointed at by a Werewolf during voting, they become a Werewolf
Diseased – Gives either player to right or left a Mark of Disease; whoever votes for either the marked or player loses
Doppelgänger – Looks at any other player’s card and becomes that card. Does that action during but different time
Drunk – Swap your card with a card from center but does not look at his new card
Empath – App asks some other players w/ eyes closed to point at someone. She observes it with her eyes open
Exposer – May flip 0-3 center cards over, the max via app
Gremlin – Swap any two player’s (even himself) cards or marks (not both)
Hunter – If he is voted to die, he can chose one player to also die
Insomniac – Looks at her own card, but does not gain its power, just the team alliance. Can’t if it has a Shield on it
Instigator – Give any player (including herself) a Mark of the Traitor; they only win if someone on their team dies
Leader – Aliens must stick out thumb for him to see. if all Aliens vote the Leader, they win, even if an Alien is killed. If Groob and Zerb are in play, he is on his own team wins if they survive 
Marksman – Looks at one other player’s card and a different player’s mark
Mason (2) – Wakes up and looks for the other fellow Mason
Oracle – App asks her a question, she enters it on the app, when then reveals what she did to everyone
Paranormal Investigator – Looks at two other player’s cards one at a time; if he sees team they are not on the Villager Team he stops looking and becomes that role. May not look at any center cards.
Pickpocket – Swaps his mark for another player’s mark and then looks at it
Priest – Swaps his mark and one other player’s mark with a Mark of Clarity. which purge other Marks)
Prince – Cannot die; Go to the next highest voted
Psychic – Looks at 1-2 cards, which in position via app such as neighbors, center, odd or even players
Rascal – May manipulate cards via app such as stealing, switching, moving, etc
Revealer – Turns and keeps one player’s card face up unless they are not on the Villager Team
Robber – Swaps his card for any other player’s card (not center) which he then looks at
Seer (2) – Looks at one player’s card (not her own) or two cards from the center
Sentinel – Place a Shield token on one player’s card; that card (not mark) cannot be looked at or moved
Thing – Taps the nearest shoulder of the player on their immediate right or left
Troublemaker – Swaps any two other player’s cards (not her own or center) without looking at them
Village Idiot – Rotates all player’s cards (not his own or center) one spot either left or right without looking at them
Villager (3) – No power
Witch – May look at one center card. If she does she must swap it with any player’s card (including hers)

Werewolf Team: 
Alpha Wolf – Wakes with other Werewolves. Wakes after and exchanges the center Alpha card with any other non-Werewolf player card
Dream Wolf – Sticks out his thumb during the Werewolf night action for the others to see, but does not wake up. 
Minion – All Werewolf team (not Minion/Squire) stick up their thumb for him to see
Mystic Wolf – Wakes with other Werewolves. Wakes after and looks at any other player’s card (not center or own)
Squire – All Werewolf team (not Minion/Squire) stick up their thumb for him to see, who may look at their cards
Werewolf (4) – Open their eyes and view their fellow Werewolves (including Mystic and Alpha)

Tanner Team(s): 
Apprentice Tanner – Tanner sticks out his thumb for him to see. Only wins if another Tanner dies. Multiple Apprentice Tanners are on the same team 
Tanner (2) – Only wins if he dies. Multiple Tanners are on separate teams
Alien Team:
Alien - View their fellow Aliens (including Body Snatcher, Synthetic, Groob and Zerb) and do the action app says
Body Snatcher – Wakes with other aliens. Wakes after and swaps cards via app. New card is on the Alien team.
Groob – Wakes with other aliens. Wakes after to see Zerb. If Zerb is a player at vote, only wins if Zerb dies
Zerb - Wakes with other aliens. Wakes after to see Groob. If Groob is a player at vote, only wins if Groob dies
Synthetic – Wakes with other aliens. He wins if he dies. 

Vampire Team: 
Renfield – With their eyes closed, sees who Vampires gave Mark of the Vampire; then gives himself Mark of the Bat
The Master – Cannot die if another Vampire votes for him; Go to the next highest voted
The Count - Gives a non-Vampire the Mark of Fear; this prevents that player from doing their night action
Vampire (2) – Open their eyes and view their fellow Vampires (including The Count and The Master). Then decide together to give one non-Vampire the Mark of the Vampire, which turns them into a Vampire

Own team:
Blob –  Wins if no player part of him (left, right or both), via app, dies

Mortician – Looks at 1-2 neighbor cards (left or right), via app. Wins if at least one of his neighbors is killed

Assassin - Gives the Mark of the Assassin to any player (not himself); he can only win if that player dies

Apprentice Assassin - Wakes up to see who the Assassin is; he can only win if the Assassin  dies. If there is no Assassin, he becomes the Assassin

Traitor - The player who has the Mark of the Traitor (given by the Instigator) – Only wins if someone on their team dies

Nostradamus – Team less. Looks at up to 3 cards. As soon as he sees a non-villager card, he stops. The last card he looks at: if that team wins, he wins but only if he doesn’t die

Artifacts: 
An artifact overrides whatever card might be beneath it, and may alter any endgame actions. 
Alien Artifact: The player is now an Alien
Bow of the Hunter: the player is now a Hunter
Brand of the Villager: the player is now a Villager
Claw of the Werewolf: the player is now a Werewolf
Cloak of the Prince: the player is now a Prince
Cudgel of the Tanner: the player is now a Tanner
Dagger of the Traitor: you are now a traitor and can only win if someone else on your team dies
Mask of Muting: the player’s role is unaffected and they may not speak
Mist of the Vampire: the player is now a Vampire
Shroud of Shame: the player’s role is unaffected, but they must turn away from the other players for the duration of the game and not see any player’s cards or tokens, or ever turn back around to vote
Sword of the Bodyguard: the player is now a Bodyguard
Void of Nothingness: the player’s role is unaffected

Marks:
Mark of Clarity: No effect
Mark of Fear: this prevents a player from doing their night action
Mark of Love: If one of these players dies, the other also dies
Mark of the Assassin: This signifies who must die for the Assassin to win
Mark of the Bat: No effect (other than to track Renfield’s action)
Mark of the Disease. Anyone who votes for a player that is Diseased (role or mark) cannot win 
Mark of the Traitor: Can only win if someone on their team dies
Mark of the Vampire: this changes that player’s role into a Vampire